1) what is OOPs?
A)  a) OOPs (Object Oriented Programming) is a programming model that organizes software design around objects, rather than logic and functions.
    b) OOPs enable developers to create modular, organized, maintainable, reusable and extensible software systems.

2) what is the class ?
A) class is a blue print for creating objects. They define structure and behaviour of objects by specifying attributes (data) and mthods (functions) that instance of class will possess. 

3) what is object ?
A) object are instances of a class. They represent real world entities and contains data (attributes) and functionality (methods) that operate on that data. Objects are similar to real-world entities, 
   such as a pencil, chair, or eraser.

4) What are the principals of OOPs?
A) Abstraction, encapsulation, polymorphism, and inheritance are the four main theoretical principles of object-oriented programming.

5) What is inheritance?
A) Inheritance allow a new class (subclass or derived class or child class) to inherit attributes and methods from an existing class (superclass or base class or parent class).It promote code reuse and
   establishes a hierarchical relationship between class.
   Example if class B is inherit from class A then this can be represnt as :
                        class A
						   ^
						   |
						   |
						   |
						class B 

5) What are Composition ?
A) Composition is a strong relationship where one class (the whole) contain other class (the part), and the part cannot exist without whole. (It is "is a" relationship).

6) What are Aggregations ?
A) Aggregation is a weaker relationship than composition, where one class is associated with another, but the associated class can exist independetly. (It is "is a" relationship).

7) What are Associations ?
A)  a) Unidirectional Association : A relation where one class is aware of another class, allowing it to interact, but the reverse is not necessarily true.
    b) Bidireactional Association : A mutual relationship where both classes aware of each other, enabling interaction in both directions.						
						
8) what is encapsulation ?
A) Encapsulation is process of bundling data(attributes) and methods (function) that operate on that data into a single unit called as class. It restrict the direct access to object's internal state.
   and enforce the access through define methods, thus hiding implementation details.
   
   
9) what is Abstraction ?
A) Abstraction is process of simplifying complex reality by modeling a classes based on their essential properties and behaviours while ignoring non-essential details. It allow developers to focus on
   what an object does rather than how it does it.

10) what is polymorphism ?
A) a) Polymorphism word is the combination of "poly," which means many + "morphs," which means forms, which together means many forms. Polymorphism in C++ is when the behavior of the same object or   
      function is different in different contexts. 
   b) Polymorphism is divided into two types.
          1) Compile time Ploymorphism.
		  2) Run time Polymorphism.
   c) 
       1) Compile time polymorphism :
                    This is achieved by method overloading and operator overloading. It is also known as "static" or "early binding".
             a) Method Overloading :
                               	       1) When we have two metods with the same name but different parameters, different methods are called depending on the number and data types of parameters.    
									      This is known as method overloading
                                       2) method Overloading can be achieved through the following two cases:
                                               a) The names of the method and return types are the same but differ in the type of arguments.
											   b) The name of the method and return types are the same, but they differ in the number of arguments.
									   3) Correct method id determine at compile time.
									 
			 b) Operator Overloading :
			                            C++ has the ability to provide the operators with a special meaning for a data type, this ability is known as operator overloading. For example, we can make use of the addition operator (+) for string class to concatenate two strings. We know that the task of this operator is to add two operands. So a single operator ‘+’, when placed between integer operands, adds them and when placed between string operands, concatenates them.

       2) Run time polymorphism :
	     
		   a) method overloading :
                                      1) This type of polymorphism is achieved by Function Overriding. Late binding and dynamic polymorphism are other names for runtime polymorphism. The function call 
									     is resolved at runtime in runtime polymorphism.
                                      2) Function Overriding occurs when a derived class has a definition for one of the member functions of the base class. That base function is said to be 
									     overridden.

           b) Virtual Functions :
                                      1) A virtual function is a member function that is declared in the base class using the keyword virtual and is re-defined (Overridden) in the derived 
									     class.
                                      2) Virtual functions are Dynamic in nature. 
									  3) They are defined by inserting the keyword “virtual” inside a base class and are always declared with a base class and overridden in a child class.
                                      4) A virtual function is called during Runtime.

11) what is relation between encapsulation and inheritance ?
A) You can do encapsulation without using abstraction, but if you wanna use some abstraction in your projects, you'll need encapsulation.


12) what are interfaces and abstarct classes ?
A)  1) Abstract Classes :
                            1) They serve as a blue print or template for other classes, known as its sub class or derived class.
                            2) They cannot be intantiated directly. They exist solely to be inherited from by other calsses.
							3) They can include both method declaration(signatures) and method implementation. This flexibility allows you to have some default behaviour.
							4) Subclasses that inherit from abstract class are require to implement abstract methods declared in base class.
							
	2) Interface :
	                        1)They focus on defining contract specifying set of method signatures that a class must adhere to.
							2) They do not contain any method implementation.
							3) the primary purpose of interface is to establish a common set of behaviours that multiple, often unrealted, classes can adhere to.
							4) This promotes high degree of flexibiulity and polymorphism in codebase, as classes from different hierarchies can implement the same interface.


13) What are solid principles ?
A)  1) All the Design patterns will be adhere to this principles.
    2) If the code fallow above solid principles then the code will be modular, organized, maintainable, reusable and extensible.
  	3) Single Responsibiity Principles (SRP) :
	                a) A class should have one reason to change. Meaning it should have single responsibilty or job.
					b) Single responsibility is subjective, and dependent on specific context of application.
					   Example :
					               Order validation can either be a single class responsibility or there can be multiple classes to validate user inputs, generating error messages and checking permission.
    4) Open-Closed principle (OCP) :
	                a) Software entities like classes, functions and modules should open for extension and closed for modification.
					b) Allowing new functionality to add without changig the existing code.
					c) Once the code is written and tested, It should not modified when adding the new features.
                    d) Code should be extensible.
                    e) Example : Logger modules had info and error Logs then we should add debug Logs seamlessly.
    
	5) Liskov substitution principles (LSP):
                    a) At a high level, the LSP states that in an object-oriented program, if we substitute a superclass object reference with an object of any of its subclasses, the program should not 
					   break.
					b) We can think of the methods defined in the superclass as defining a contract. Every subclass is expected to stick to this contract. If a subclass does not adhere to the   
					   superclass’s contract, it’s violating the LSP.
					c) Other way of defining LSP is a principle in object-oriented programming that states that objects of a superclass should be able to be replaced with objects of a subclass without  
					   affecting the correctness of the program. In other words, the behavior of a subclass should be a valid substitution for the behavior of the superclass.
					d) if Emplyee is Base class and manager, intern are subclasses of Employee then Employee should be replace by manager and intern seamlessly.
					
	6) Interface segregation principle (ISP) :
	                a) Clients should not be forced to depend upon interfaces that they do not use.
					b) This principle states that we should create multiple interfaces to deal with clients instead of one so that for extended classes which might not need some of the   	    		
					   functionalities, the user should not have to deal with them at all. Instead, he/she should have the independence to choose from the possible interfaces.
					c) We should Aim for smaller and more specific interface.
					d) For example:
					                Swiggy is interface where it has KYC() method let assume customer user, Delivery partners and restaurent owners is derived from Swiggy interface. Then all the 
									three classes customer users, Delivery partners and restaurents has to implement KYC() method but KYC() method does not make any sense for customer users. So
									here we should not force to defined KYC() this method in customer users class. One possibe solution overhere is break the interfaces into smaller interface like below:
                                                                        
                                                                        ISwiggy
                                                                         |   |																		
	                                                    _________________|   |_________________
	                                                   |									   |			
													ISwiggyKYC                            ISwiggywithoutKYC         
											___________|_________________                       |            
                                            |         					 |						|		   
							 Delivery Partner class			   Restaurents Class            Customer user Class
							
    7) Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP) :
	                a) High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules.
                    b) Both should depend on abstractions.
                    c) Abstractions should not depends on details and details should depend on abstractions.
                    d) High Level order processing modules should depend on an abstract "PayementGateway" interface, not an specific payement services Like Paypal or 
					   creditcardprocessor.					
                      	
						
14) DRY (Don’t Repeat Yourself) ?
A) The DRY (Don’t Repeat Yourself) principle emphasizes the elimination of unnecessary code duplication in a software development project. According to this principle, each piece of knowledge or logic should have a single canonical representation within the system.

15) KISS (Keep It Simple, Stupid) ?
A) The KISS (Keep It Simple, Stupid) principle emphasizes simplicity in code design and implementation. According to this principle, it’s better to maintain simple solutions rather than making them 
   complex. Simplicity promotes understanding, maintenance, and problem-solving.
   
16) YAGNI (You Ain’t Gonna Need It) ?
A) The YAGNI (You Ain’t Gonna Need It) principle emphasizes not implementing features or code that are not immediately necessary. According to this principle, it’s better to focus on essential features 
   and avoid anticipating hypothetical future needs.